Okay, now that we've covered a little
bit of background on what machine
learning is and some of the major types of
machine learning problems, there's nothing
like getting started with our own
machine learning application in Python.
And we're going to get
started on that right now.
So to do that, we're going to make use of
several important Python libraries that
will support our work.
These include scikit-learn, SciPy,
NumPy, pandas, and matplotlib.
We recommend installing all of these
using the Anaconda Python distribution
since it comes with all the libraries
we'll need in this part of the course.
If you have some other existing
Python installation, you can
install the libraries we'll be using from
the command line using pip, like this.
The most important library
we'll be using for
machine learning is called scikit-learn.
Scikit-learn is the most widely used
Python library for machine learning and
it will be the basis for this course.
It's an open source project that's under
continual development and improvement,
and supports a very wide array of
important machine learning algorithms.
It has excellent online documentation and
a very active user community.
Because of this broad adoption,
scikit-learn has many sample applications,
tutorials, and
code examples that are available online.
So one valuable reference that we
recommend you use while you take this
course is the scikit-learn User Guide and
the API documentation which
contains further details on the different
algorithms that are in the library,
along with details on the various
options that these algorithms support.
Scikit-learn makes use of two other
Python scientific computing
libraries called SciPy and NumPy.
SciPy is a Python library that
supports data manipulation and
analysis methods that are commonly
used in scientific computing.
So this includes support for statistical
distributions, optimization of functions,
linear algebra, and a variety of
specialized mathematical functions.
In some parts of this course,
we'll make use of SciPy's ability to
provide what are called sparse matrices,
which are a way to store large
tables that contain mostly zeros,
so more on that later.
NumPy is a Python library for scientific
computing that contains support for
some fundamental data structures
used by scikit-learn,
such as multi-dimensional arrays.
Typically, data that's input to
scikit-learn will be in the form of
a NumPy array.
Pandas is a Python library for
data manipulation and analysis.
And if you took course one in this series,
you've already had experience
with what pandas can do.
The key data structure pandas supports
that we'll be using is called a DataFrame,
which is basically like a spreadsheet
table with rows and named columns.
So unlike the arrays supported by NumPy,
the columns in a DataFrame can
be of all different types.
You can have one column holding string
values, another column holding a date,
another column holding a floating
point number and so on.
Pandas also has great support for reading
and writing data in a variety of formats,
everything from comma
separated CSV files to SQL,
the Structured Query Language
used by databases and more.
Matplotlib is a widely used
Python 2D plotting library
that produces high quality figures
in a variety of formats and
interactive environments across platforms.
Matplotlib can be used in Python scripts,
the Python and
iPython shell,
web application servers, and
a variety of different graphical
user interface toolkits.
If you've taken course two
in this data science series,
you'll already have some
experience with using matplotlib.
Here, we'll primarily be
using matplotlib.pyplot for
data analysis since it can
create histograms, bar charts,
error charts, scatter plots, and so
forth with just a few lines of code.
So, for reference,
this course will be using the following
versions of these libraries
as shown on the slide.
It's okay if your versions don't match our
versions exactly, as long as the version
of scikit-learn you're using is the same
or later than the one we've shown here.